{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f52\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2057\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2174356\rsid3212090\rsid3477726\rsid6832128\rsid8085253\rsid9705426
\rsid10102401\rsid11629344\rsid12982990}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4219;}{\info{\author pssuser}{\operator pssuser}{\creatim\yr2005\mo4\dy26\hr14\min25}{\revtim\yr2005\mo4\dy27\hr9\min20}{\version7}{\edmins38}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords910}
{\nofchars5193}{\*\company PSS}{\nofcharsws6091}{\vern16469}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6832128 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe2057\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2057 {\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 *******************************************************************
\par *
\par *\tab }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 Calendar Menu
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 *
\par *\tab By jalist with extras from Cameron, McFly and Barry and others
\par *
\par *\tab Version\tab \tab 3.5
\par *
\par *\tab e107 version\tab 0.7+
\par *
\par *\tab Compliance\tab XHTML 1.1
\par *
\par *******************************************************************
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid2174356 Introduction}{\i\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid2174356 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 This is a calendar/event plugin for the e107CMS.  This is provided as a core plugin distributed with the e107.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid2174356 Upgrading}{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 
\par Copy the contents of this folder to your e107plugins calendar_menu folder.  Go to the plugin manager and run the upgrade.  Then check that the database is correct by running a database validity check from the main admin menu - databases option.
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid10102401 Subscriptions
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid10102401 \line Version 3.5 introduces the facility for a membe
r to be able to subscribe to event categories though not to individual events.  If they subscribe they will receive email notification to the address they used when registering.  The admin can decide if it is to be an email sent x days before the event or
 on the day of the event or both.  
\par 
\par If you wish to allow them to subscribe to notifications then you need some way of getting your server to }{\f1\fs20\insrsid11629344 check to see if an email is due to be sent.  There are three ways of doing this 
\par 
\par 1) as an admin function.  This means that you have to remember to go and run an admin function everyday \endash  not very good.  
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid3477726 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid11629344 2) as a menu that runs everytime your site is accessed.  We can make this an \'93invisible\'94 menu ie there is not output displayed on the screen and have it check if it 
is time to send an email.  This is better than the first option but requires that you have at least one site hit per day.  It also adds an extra burden on to the server going and running the menu\rquote s script and a small bit of code to check.}{
\f1\fs20\insrsid3477726   If you use this method then enable the subs menu but remember you won\rquote t see anything on the screen}{\f1\fs20\insrsid10102401 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid3477726 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid11629344 3) as a cron or Windows scheduled task.  This is the best method.  It will run everyday at the same time and so won\rquote t get forgotten.  It is only run once and so doesn\rquote 
t place unnecessary loads on the server (important if it\rquote s a busy site) but requires that you have access to CRON or Windows scheduler.
\par 
\par So which to go for?  Option 3 is the best job and if not that then option 2.  To set up the cron job you should copy th
e file calcron.php into the top level of your e107 directory (I found that this is the most reliable place to run it from) and create your cron job in the usual manner.  It is beyond the scope of this readme to tell you how to do it or how to trouble shoo
t it.
\par 
\par On my server it is a case of running c:\\php\\cli\\php \endash f  calcron.php in the top level of your e107 site.  I also needed to copy php.ini to the php\\cli directory}{\f1\fs20\insrsid3212090 
.  You may have to play around with paths to get it to work.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid11629344 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid12982990 
\par There are some limitations, people logged in can\rquote t subscribe and you can\rquote t force email standard groups like Admin Only class or Members Only class.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid12982990\charrsid10102401 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid10102401 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128\charrsid6832128 Version 3.5
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128 
\par This version brings the opportunity to allow members to subscribe to event categories.  Admin can determine if a category is allowed to have subscriptions and if it does then when the user is notified.  For example an email can be sent x days before the e
vent (with a tailored message) or on the day of the event (again with a message) or on both occasions.  
\par 
\par Admin can also configure the calendar to force notifications to a particular user class.  Subscription by the user is not possible in this case they ar
e automatically included in the mail shot.  This might be useful when it is used in an intranet system and you have a reports deadline userclass.  All the members of that userclass will then be notified when the report is due, they can\rquote 
t unsubscribe from the emails and so can\rquote t argue they didn\rquote t get notified the report was due.
\par 
\par There is a new table created in this version }{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 plus changes to one other table so you must run upgrade plug-in from the plug-in manager.  You will also need to set the new settings fo
r each of the categories you have to allow or disallow subscriptions.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid10102401 
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426 C}{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426\charrsid9705426 ategori}{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426 es can now be made visible to one }{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426\charrsid9705426 userclass }{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426 but re
stricted in who can add events.  This is the add new event class field.  So a whole department can view and subscribe to a category but only department managers can add events.
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid9705426\charrsid9705426 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128\charrsid6832128 Version 3.4
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6832128 
\par Some bug fixes and a nice calendar added.
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 
\par }{\b\i\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 Version 3.3
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 
\par Enhancements have been made by various people and now is version 0.7+ and xhtml1.1 compatible.  Also added are integrity check file and database validity check file.
\par 
\par This version brings userclasses to the categories.  Admin now can control the editing of categories and the userclasses that can access them.  
\par 
\par The calendar menu block also respects userclasses; only those events in categories to which the user is entitled to see are displayed.  
\par 
\par Validation is now made before submitting the form.  Required fields left empty or incorrect start and end times are flagged with Javascript alert.  
\par 
\par If a new event is being created and an email address is available (user logged in for example) then this is prompted in the email adress field.  This can be over ridden by the user.
\par 
\par Admin can define if the create new category is shown on create event form
.  If you don't want users creating new categories then this can be turned off.  Likewise, admin can hide the field for forum link, if you don't want these links ion the events then they can be turned off.
\par 
\par Admin can define a "Calendar Supervisor" userclas
s.  Members of this class can see all categories and events and can edit and delete events from  the event list.  Event administrators don't actually have to be made admins to be able to look after events though normally they would be.  This is more appro
priate for corporate users using e107 as an intranet.
\par 
\par Clicking on an event in calendar view displays just that event, not all the events on that day.  Click on the day number to list all on that day.
\par 
\par Javascript to hide the email from spam bots when displaying an event.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 Version 3.2 and prior}{\f1\fs20\insrsid2174356 
\par Substantial rewrite of the code to make it more efficient and to give admin control of the css for the look and feel of the calendar.
\par }}